# Do you have any questions for me?

- I do have a few questions. Thanks for asking. We talked a bit about your plans to invest in training opportunities for your current employees, especially those who will be managing the company's transition to a centralized billing system. I think that this is a great plan, and I'd love to support the curriculum development. Now, will most of the training modules be designed by this team? And will they be delivered in person, via webinar, or a video format? Or will you be using a hybrid approach? Why this answer worked well:She showed that she had been paying attention to the conversation.She wanted to delve a bit further into a topic that they’ve just discussed.She conveyed a lot of enthusiasm about supporting what sounds like a priority project for that organization.

- Earlier in our conversation, you mentioned that there were some tensions between these two teams. Can you share more about where that comes from, and how you think this will impact me in my role? I’m very excited to hear that you’re also passionate about making sure that gig economy workers are paid a fair living wage. What are some of the biggest challenges in preventing our team from delivering on this promise? Recently, I saw that the company had to deal with a sensitive subject on the news. How was this perceived and discussed internally? Why this answer worked well:The candidate referenced earlier parts of the conversation, showing that they were interested and engaged.The questions show that an awareness of and interest in how the company is perceived.

- How do you think I should approach the first 30 days in the role to best position myself for success in a new culture? I know that your company has won numerous awards for workplace and community culture, and I have always prided myself in helping colleagues get active in the community. What do opportunities look like within your organization to get involved? Why this answer worked well:The answer shows that the candidate has done their homework, and has a genuine interest in getting involved across different aspects of the company culture and activities.The candidate showed their desire to be successful in the role by already thinking about the onboarding process.

- What do you see as the most critical component of your business today that will contribute to your long-term success? What challenges does your organization face today that you are working to overcome? Regarding my role, what would you consider to be the most important factor to ensuring success? Why this answer worked well:The candidate asked insightful questions that show their willingness to be successful and ask for guidance.The answer showed interest in the future of the company.

# Question: Tell me about a time you had to learn something quickly.
- When I started in my role, I thought I was quite good at Excel. I had told my employer that I knew how to calculate complex formulas, but I quickly discovered that my experience was well behind that of my peers. I didn’t want my boss to know that I was trailing in my capabilities just as I stepped into the new role, so I came up with a plan to teach myself everything I was missing. Every day after work, I watched at least an hour of Khan Academy videos. I also found practice worksheets online that allowed me to test myself and be sure I was mastering the content. Within three weeks, I was nearly as fast and fluent as my colleagues at work, and my boss never knew I had come in behind. Why this answer worked well:She showed initiative by going above and beyond after work to catch up to her peers.She was specific in what she didn’t know and then told a clear and concise story about what she needed to do to change the situation.She described how with focus and hard work she was able to catch up rather quickly.

- In my role as a new manager, I was given a new tele-acquisition channel to manage with little guidance. The channel was brand new to me and my team leader, so we had to get up to speed quickly. I had to learn the channel’s end-to-end process, how it functions, and its various nuances to prevent any negative impact to the business during the ramp up process. I set up time with our internal and external partners to get an understanding of their scope and expectations, and started to build relationships. I took the time to review previous years’ results and understand team pain points. Then, I coalesced all this information and created a process map to clearly lay out our goals and action steps required to smoothly transition — as well as establish myself as the point of contact and project owner for accountability purposes. Due to these efforts, we were able to not only maintain the high standards the channel was running at before we took over, but we also made key process improvements resulting in higher client satisfaction. Why this answer worked well:The candidate demonstrated the ability to quickly assess situations, solve problems, and activate individuals across different disciplines with little direction.Creating a process that held the team accountable for success showed leadership skills.

- Due to change in senior leadership, we had to aggressively rethink our approach on the next evolution of cloud technology. I led a company-wide effort to define and execute a strategy to move towards a subscription-based cloud solution. First, I worked with my team to define our areas of focus, starting from understanding how our products should work in the future based on the needs, behaviors, desires, and emotions of the customers. We then examined our capabilities as well as current gaps within supply chain, engineering, design, marketing, and sales. We looked at how customers interact with our products. We also obtained third party market research to identify opportunities. From there, I developed a strategy map to lay out ways in which the organization needed to evolve to succeed, and built both business and product roadmaps based on this strategy. Within 8 months, we were able to get full alignment within the team and executed the strategy. We were able to migrate the original solutions to on-prem, hybrid, and private clouds and rolled out offerings to over 100 countries. Why this answer worked well:The candidate demonstrated a comfort level with high visibility, high stakes projects.The example showed the candidate’s ability to strategize and execute a plan within an aggressive timeline.

- As a supply chain executive, I’ve always wanted to do an assignment abroad, especially in Mexico where the manufacturing scene is exploding with the creation of new factories driven by government tax credits. My current company has a policy that basic fluency in Spanish is required to be eligible for those roles, so I needed to learn enough to conduct foundational communication with vendor partners. Since my busy schedule didn’t allow for formal language lessons from a private tutor, I enrolled in an online course. I committed to a daily routine at 4:30am while my wife and child were still sleeping so my goal didn’t cut into family time. I also downloaded Duolingo so I could use my commute to practice. Finally, I asked my Spanish-speaking friends to communicate with me only in spanish to help refine my conversational skills. Within 4 months, I was fluent enough to land my dream job as a factory leader in Mexico City on an 18 month expat assignment. Why this answer worked well:The answer highlights the candidate’s ambition and enthusiasm for the role.The candidate demonstrated self-discipline and time management skills.


# Tell me about a time you had to handle pressure.
 
- I was working on my company's big quarterly project update when two team members left unexpectedly and we were short-handed with three weeks to go. I convened an urgent strategy session where we identified all the projects they were involved in and mapped out our action plan. We shared the most important tasks within the team and got them all done in time. We canceled two optional features that could wait a quarter, and we reached out to a former intern who was able to deliver 15 hours of remote work in the last weekend sprint before the deadline. We were able to complete the project without a delay and delivered on all the essential deliverables by being creative, strategic, and very focused. Why this answer worked well:She described herself as a friendly leader who got to work addressing the challenge for the entire team.She took us through a strategy where she focused on the most important elements and deprioritized the rest.She was creative and resourceful by finding an unexpected ally to help her through this challenge.

- During my time as an analyst for a major airline, I was pulled into a special project where we were asked to look at a potential merger scenario with another carrier. Due to the confidentiality of the project, I was unable to work with peers or use my normal channels for support, and was required to meet a demanding work schedule in order to complete our evaluation in the allotted time. While this project leveraged some of my existing skills, there was still a lot I needed to learn about our acquisition target to complete the work. I made my family aware that I’d need to temporarily shift my evening hours to work. This proactive communication prevented me from facing compounding pressure. I also made sure to communicate daily with my VP. He knew the unique challenge I was facing and could provide guidance, but only if he knew where to help. So I set up daily check-ins with him to show him my progress and receive feedback in a 1:1 setting outside of our normal working group. This added communication helped me avoid any surprises, eased stress, and allowed me to successfully manage and complete an unfamiliar project. Why this answer worked well:The candidate demonstrated flexibility by being willing to deviate from a normal workflow.The candidate demonstrated the ability to learn new skills and processes quickly.

- When I was working as a Systems Integration Manager, I was responsible for onboarding a client to our TMS (transportation management solution) on a tight timeline. This was challenging because the client managed their own transportation independently. None of their data or invoicing for freight was centralized, and I was missing a lot of information. We needed to hit our target go-live date because my company had already hired employees for the account and needed the revenue. I knew that I needed to get the info by the end of the week to ensure that I could validate assumptions used for RFP, margin, resource leveling, and so on. I set up a call with the client and they explained that they were short on manpower and would need more time. I offered to visit the sites, conduct the interviews, complete the site and freight profiles, and take all necessary photos. Once I gathered the information, my team keyed in the data and we hit our go-live date without a moment to spare. The project was a success. We hit our revenue numbers as planned, no money was lost, and all parties were very pleased. Thanks to the extra effort, our relationship with that client is stronger than ever. Why this answer worked well:The candidate showed leadership by going the extra mile to accomplish a goal for both the company and the client.Success was framed in a way that captured both the short-term impact to the project (meeting sales goals) and the long-term benefit to company growth (strengthening a business relationship).

- I led a rapid, three month-long company-wide initiative to help customers reduce their carbon footprint. To accomplish this goal within an aggressive timeline, I led a team of five subject matter experts to design a new service offering targeting the manufacturing, mining, chemical, and electronics industries. We assessed their current carbon and environmental waste output, and identified areas and opportunities for reduction in a phased approach. We conducted interviews and focus groups with customers, academics, and government officials who had vested interest in sustainability. We then synthesized the findings from the interviews by identifying user profiles and personas across each customer segment, as well as any gaps in key segment profiles and service offering competencies. Finally, we kicked off work around third-party partnerships to assess skills and competencies that complement each other, taking cultural alignment and vision into account. Once the service offering was designed, we conducted a pilot program and defined the SKUs, pricing structure, and legal contracts in collaboration with internal stakeholders. It was a high pressure project, due to the scale of the effort and aggressiveness of the timeline, but results were impressive — generating $10M in attach run rate annually. Why this answer worked well:The example showed the candidate’s expertise and ability to lead complex initiatives.The candidate’s contribution was directly tied to a significant increase in annual revenue.

Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.
 
Describe the situation.

Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.
 
Get into the action.

Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.
 
Show the results.

Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.

Tips
Be clear about the project goal.
Establish that you’re a strong person who doesn’t get flustered easily.
Show your ingenious side, too, especially if your path to success involved redefining the task or enlisting colleagues.



# Tell me about a time you surpassed people’s expectations.

Overview
Employers want to know they are hiring high quality people. If you have a story about surpassing an expectation, you’ve probably gone above and beyond the call of duty and that’s a great thing!

- As a young professional, I was given a small event to manage for my company's senior executives. We originally expected about 50 attendees, but then the CEO decided to participate too. Suddenly, the event became much bigger with 400 people attending. We had to organize buses, food, scripted content, speeches and the program itself. I stepped up and designed carefully crafted messaging documents for each stakeholder; had weekly check-ins with each group; and ran volunteer training sessions to be sure that all the logistics ran smoothly. I learned the importance of careful planning and constant practice; two habits that paid off on many projects since then. The event is now considered the most successful of our division. My boss praised my work for going far beyond what she expected when the project was first assigned. Why this answer worked well:She painted a picture of how she approached a new problem.She explained how she adjusted throughout to meet challenges as they arose.She described the successful outcome and its implications for her job.

- In my role as Business Analyst, I was responsible for analyzing and implementing strategies for key products. Due to a combination of an organizational restructuring and employee attrition, my team of four shrunk down to a team of two: my new leader and me. At this stage, I combined some key skill sets. I used my technical expertise to create and automate new models that would capture potential opportunities, and my ability to communicate complicated results in simple language to support our sales team’s efforts. The automation led to greater efficiency, and my communication and relationship-building skills helped the sales team create client-specific onboarding strategies. This enabled us to continue to keep the business going with minimal impact. I was recognized by senior leadership for being able to pivot quickly in unpredictable circumstances and make the most of a difficult situation. Why this answer worked well:The candidate used both soft and technical skill sets to maintain output with reduced headcount.The answer demonstrated a growth mindset by showing adaptability, innovation, and the willingness to rethink how their role can be done.

- I had only been in my new role at a leading professional services firm for a few months when I got the call: “Can you make it to Atlanta tomorrow morning for a pitch meeting with a leading telecom company? We need all hands on deck!” It turned out that the senior management closest to this client couldn’t make the meeting, so I led an 8-figure pitch. I leaned on my public speaking and presentation skills to carry the meeting and make a strong impression. I painted a picture of how we were uniquely qualified as the best partner for this piece of business, and peppered in some humility to make the firm look more “human.” On our way back to the airport, a senior leader from our firm who had come along for optics told me that people at my level were not nearly this polished, and that he would welcome me to future pitches to all of his clients. It felt great to have exceeded the expectations of this very senior leader and this incident set me on a path to success at the firm. Why this answer worked well:The candidate demonstrated the ability to quickly and reliably take ownership when needed.The answer highlighted strong presentation skills, a positive attitude, and willingness to be flexible.

- I had been in my new role within the organization for just one week. My predecessor had left the relationship with our customer in a questionable place and as a result, they informed us that they’d be working with our top competitor instead. We’d found the work to be very impactful and needed a plan to win the customer back. I worked with my team to identify the customer’s pain points, then we began re-engagement efforts. At the beginning, the engagements were only by email, but soon I began getting phone calls from senior leaders asking if we could help them to solve these problems. After 7 months, the customer asked if we still had the headcount to support them. We came to discover that many of the presentations we’d shared had circulated through other parts of their organization. A few months later, the customer’s senior leadership asked me to expand my team so that we could increase our scope and do more of this work in other categories where we sold products. We did, and our sales have continued to grow in double digits for the last 2 years. Needless to say, the relationship with the customer is stronger than ever. Why this answer worked well:The answer details how the candidate walked into a challenging situation, created a plan, and increased business as a result.The solution utilized a blend of customer relations, project management, and communication skills, which helped establish the candidate’s breadth of knowledge and professional competence.



# Tell me about a time you created a goal and achieved it.

- Overview
    -- Strong answers reassure interviewers about your ambition and your determination to press ahead. Pick a trivial goal, and you’re at risk of being tagged as a slacker.

- In my line of work, most top performers have MBAs. I couldn't afford to step out of the workforce for two years to earn one. But I promised myself to do everything possible to earn an MBA within three years while working full-time. I found a top-rated online program and started setting my alarm clock for 5:30 a.m. I set goals of two hours of study time in the morning and evening, and made detailed to-do lists to manage both my study schedule and my other work responsibilities. It was incredibly hard, but I persisted and managed every minute of my day—and achieved my goal. Why this answer worked well:He chose a goal that’s clear, ambitious, and relevant to his career.He described specific actions he took to achieve his objectives.He made it clear that he accomplished his goal.

- I was two weeks into my first role with a new company when the leader of our business unit requested to showcase all the technology my team was working on, plus two brand new demos in the grand opening of our New York City office — in just six weeks. My manager tagged me to lead the charge. Most of our projects weren’t client-ready, which would mean lots of coding and testing to do in a short period of time. I don’t think anyone thought we’d have it 100% ready in time. I gathered the team and explained to them that we had a really cool opportunity, and asked for their ideas. I didn’t sugarcoat how hard it would be, but promised to do everything I could to clear the path. In the next few weeks, I quickly re-prioritized our Jira backlog to put other non-critical projects on pause and communicated to those stakeholders. I then implemented weekly sprints and daily standups to reduce meeting overhead and increase the time available for them to code and test in pairs. And to keep up morale, I requested funds from leadership to sponsor dinners for the team when they worked late, and even secured travel funds so that our developers could attend the opening. Through careful re-prioritization, open communication and keeping the morale high, we were able to successfully deliver the demo as the result. Why this answer worked well:The candidate was realistic about the challenge, but created a clear plan to meet the timeline.The candidate demonstrated leadership by encouraging morale and securing a team reward.

- While working as a digital analyst for a top snack brand, sales growth had been slowing for our company. After discovering that our key customers - people between 16-24 year-olds - were heavily over-indexing on mobile, I persuaded the team to execute a massive pivot: shifting 25% of our digital spending towards top mobile channels. We began to liaise with leading sports platforms and leveraged their flagship app. Envisioning true integrations, not just tiny banners that go unnoticed, we began to gain stakeholder buy-in through casual pop-ins with senior leadership — so that by the time we had a solid plan, approval was already implied. We inked multi-year deals as their top sponsor to block out competitors in this emerging space. We received so many mobile impressions that I personally rolled up my sleeves and flew to Kansas City to meet with our digital creative agency to brainstorm a content roadmap tailored to top markets, levering our existing sports relationships and assets in each geography. This program was a strong performer, delivering tons of value, reaching a coveted audience, and gaining industry awards that boosted the profiles of marketing leadership. It also helped me reinforce that new channels can be great opportunities if you just remember the basics: It’s all about reaching the right customer at the right time. Why this answer worked well:The candidate met a difficult challenge with a bold and innovative approach.The candidate demonstrated the ability to provide high-level strategy while being mindful of executional details.The willingness to see projects through personally showed dedication.


- As a marketing executive in the beer industry, we faced a tough challenge when data showed that our top male consumer group started drinking less beer and more spirits. Historically, the beer industry has never catered to women, which created a market share gap of over 30 points between male and female drinkers. I set a goal to reduce this gap by at least 10 points and create a $2 million opportunity for the business. This required an all new marketing approach. First, I made the case to senior management by highlighting the existential threat facing the company. Second, I chartered a small, multi-functional team of marketing, sales, finance, and supply chain to develop a holistic plan across packaging, design, and in-store merchandising. Third, I hired a female-led ad agency to create a campaign that would inspire women without alienating men. Authenticity was key, and our existing agency was not the right partner for this work. Lots of these actions were controversial at the time, but timely engagement, continuous learning, iterations, and a high degree of accountability won out. The results were huge: A 15 point reduction in market share gap which exceeded our goal, an innovative platform that lets us target other user groups, and 5 Cannes Lions awards. Why this answer worked well:The candidate showed the ability to identify opportunity areas and create innovative solutions.The answer included challenges, clear steps, and results that surpassed expectations.


# Tell me about a time you disagreed with someone.

Overview
Occasional conflicts are a fact of life. Interviewers want to see if you can work through those tensions in a respectful way. If you helped steer things toward a good compromise, that’s a big plus. Signs of anger or bitterness will count against you.


- My team was given a new goal: to sell our product to a new customer segment that we hadn’t served in the past. The group had strong opinions about the approach we should take. In spite of their voices, I had concerns about their strategy; I thought it may fail as it didn't align with the client’s core needs. But I was in the minority and when I spoke up I wasn't heard. I needed to find another way to make the case to my teammates. I set up a focus group with a potential client so my team could understand the challenges and priorities of the people we aimed to serve. The great news was they saw that our planned product wouldn't meet these needs, but if we made some slight adjustments to the service, we could deliver something of real value. The team rallied behind this and got on board. We were ultimately successful in bringing this client onboard—and ten more! Why this answer worked well:She shared a succinct example of a time when her opinion was in the minority.She came up with a creative way to change her team’s perspective.She used this new strategy and described how well it worked.

- During my time on the growth strategy team, I partnered with various brand and finance teams to create a promotion and events calendar to maximize portfolio performance. This was especially challenging because each brand team was only responsible for their brand’s performance, while my job was to help ensure that the entire portfolio succeeds. This created an inherent discord in the exercise. In the past, teams would look back at the previous year’s events with the goal of essentially replicating them. It occurred to me that this may not be the most efficient way to plan the calendar, since the process didn’t involve any real evaluation of success. My partners were reluctant to let go of the existing process. To get buy-in, I prepared two scenarios. One used the old approach. The other used my new suggested approach with event evaluation criteria — showing both the monthly and total year sales estimate for each brand, as well as the entire portfolio. To make sure my case was airtight, I’d pre-worked with other cross-functional teams to ensure that the new projections were compatible with monthly product supply numbers and trade allowances. I was able to get buy-in and implement the new process, which has allowed us to factor in accurate estimates, measure success, and increase the efficiency of event planning. Why this answer worked well:The answer demonstrated the candidate’s ability to evaluate and optimize an existing process, using data and key performance metrics.The candidate showed flexibility in his approach through scenario planning, seeking a win-win solution for all partners.The outcome was a more strategic process and a net positive for the company.

- A few years ago, I was asked to give a presentation on best practices in procuring transportation. One of my suggestions was to change the lane hierarchy for which we procure rates as well as changing the hierarchy we used to build routing guides in our transportation management system. The Director of Transportation did not agree, which created some tension. I explained to the leadership team how the change would allow us to capture all the operational requirements and help carriers to know exactly where they are sending trucks. I quickly realized that the director was concerned that the change would require more personnel and thus more budget. So, I created a presentation to detail how the new plan could save up to 5%, which would help cover more than 2 additional temporary employees. That convinced the team. Ultimately, my plan did even better than expected, with a savings of 7% — approximately 34 million dollars. As a result, I was given more latitude on future procurement-related decisions, in which I employed target pricing and multi-year deals that saved the company even more. Why this answer worked well:The answer laid out the challenge clearly and quantified success.The candidate demonstrated the ability to dive into stakeholders’ concerns and create consensus.The answer highlighted both soft and technical skills utilized to solve a conflict and improve the company’s bottom line.

- My organization had prioritized the growth of a certain part of the business, and we were all in a room discussing the best way to drive it. The cross-functional group had starkly different opinions. One senior level team member suggested that we “force” the customers to make necessary changes by threatening to pull funding. This set off warning sirens in my mind because my team would be responsible for carrying this out. I responded by acknowledging his idea as a novel approach. Then I mentioned that in the past I’d found it effective to offer incentives — rather than threats — to solve a problem or close a gap. I suggested that we offer the customer promotions in Q4 if they were able to execute our new strategy by Q3. I wanted to shift the conversation in a more positive direction and discuss ideas that would be mutually beneficial. It worked, and the group began to brainstorm which customer pain points we could help solve, and how we could inspire their cooperation. We ended up giving them additional incremental promotions, as well as participating in one of their corporate events. Not only did we solve their Q4 gap, but we grew our business by 2.3% that year. Why this answer worked well:The candidate demonstrated the ability to manage a potentially confrontational project by successfully aligning all stakeholders and guiding them towards an alternate solution.The solution offered was customer-centric, and still managed to increase the company’s bottom line.

# Tell me about a time you had to persuade someone.
Overview
This question is all about sizing up your emotional intelligence. Interviewers are looking for problem solvers, not shouters. Strong answers showcase your listening skills and your ability to guide people to better choices.

- The day before a major management review, I was told we only had ten minutes to present our project. We had originally been promised fifteen. Most of our team members agreed to shorten their remarks. One person refused to make changes. I suggested that we sit down over coffee and talk about it. I started by listening, letting him explain how hard he'd worked. I realized the issue wasn't about the length of his speech but more about him being recognized for doing a thorough job and getting his presentation together. He was proud of his work. So, we talked about another way of recognizing his efforts by acknowledging him in our team newsletter. When we wrapped up that part of the conversation, he volunteered to shorten his part of his speech. By treating his contributions with respect, I guided him to a better outcome. Why this answer worked well:He created an alternate path that supported this coworker’s goal without wrecking the entire project.He summed it up well at the end showing how he can be persuasive without dominating the conversation.

- At a key moment in my previous role, my team was trying to balance the growth of our user base and safety of users. We were exploring many solutions for this problem, and my role was to align the team. Our engineering manager had a strong perspective on a solution that was technically straightforward, but did not fully address both needs. Our designer wanted to implement a more complicated, but comprehensive solution. I believed that the latter seemed like the appropriate course of action, but it needed an additional layer of depth to fully address concerns from all parties. First, I partnered with the designer to outline the solution and create a framework that detailed key benefits and potential downsides. Next, I brought in an engineering counterpart to break down the costs and timing implications of building a comprehensive solution. These inputs enabled a strong case for the more complicated, but ultimately more meaningful solution. Enthusiastic team alignment made timely leadership buy-in possible. While I had to invest more detail work upfront, we were able to shave off a few weeks by broadening our technical brainstorms throughout the early stages — which allowed us to complete the project ahead of schedule Why this answer worked well:The candidate demonstrated the ability to identify project gaps and build a strong case towards the more optimal solution.The answer clearly outlined the approaches and strategies behind each action, which ultimately lead to improved efficiency and timely delivery.

- I had just started leading special projects for the CEO of our wholesale division. He was very particular about data models and gave line-item feedback, which caused extra work for the team. I felt strongly that there was a better way to complete the work. My boss and I pitched a new model, but it was shot down. I realized that he needed to see it in action. During the next review, I showed the old model and the CEO listed his changes. I then pulled out my new model and showed him all of the options he was able to clarify. He was surprised that I could modify variables so quickly to give him immediate feedback. He wasn’t an unreasonable person, he just had a system that worked for him. We made a successful, time-saving update because I took the time to understand his motivations, learn how to speak his language, and find a solution to his pain points. Why this answer worked well:The candidate showed strategic thinking and perseverance in taking the time to convince leadership to adopt a new approach.The solution demonstrates the candidate’s ability to identify valuable process improvements.

- As a software engineer, I had to persuade my marketing and sales teams that deploying a new version of the software was the right thing for our consumers and clients because the existing version was vulnerable to cyber attacks. The teams were against a new version because they believed it would cause client dissatisfaction. Additionally, these security enhancements came with a 23% cost increase. To reframe the value equation, I took three steps. First, I enrolled leading cyber attack experts to educate everyone on the impending risks from foreign entities. This reinforced the urgent business imperative of investing in secured systems. Next, I partnered with my finance team and determined that the cost of “fixing” systems after an attack amounted to a 77% increase in spend — to say nothing of intangibles like reputational damage. Finally, I hired a market research group to bring a group of "non-techy" folks to conduct a live, in-person demo of our new interface. The group demonstrated the new software with ease. Marketing and sales were so convinced that they asked me to join them in key client meetings to lead the sales pitch myself. Clients not only loved the new system, but revenues increased by 32% with the development of a premium version. Why this answer worked well:The answer clearly laid out the scenario, challenges, and steps.The candidate’s actions were a blend of strategic, cross-functional, and technical skills, resulting in quantifiable success.





# What are your salary expectations?

If this question arises early, odds are that the interviewer is really asking: “Can we afford you?” If it arises much later, the interviewer may be hoping that your salary requirements are aligned to what they have budgeted for this role.

- I've been doing some research on the market for the role of Sales Analyst. What I found from LinkedIn's salary tool is that here in Chicago, base pay for these jobs tends to run between $61,000 and $71,000. Half the companies pay bonuses as well. Given the global impact of your company, and the fact that candidates with Master's degrees, like me, are being recruited most heavily, I think we should be looking toward the top end of that range. Why this answer worked well:She started off by giving a salary range instead of a specific number.She brought neutral research to the table, which establishes her as someone who's trustworthy, bold and grounded.She did a credible job of showing why she should be at that higher range, which made her come across as confident and steady.


- Based on my current compensation and market research from resources like Glassdoor and levels.fyi, I am seeking a base salary within the range of $[dollar amount] to $[dollar amount]. I’ve seen similar roles that are offering $[dollar amount]. My specific experience and years in the field are closely aligned with this position, making me a strong candidate to be able to jump in and quickly add value. That said, I understand that this base salary range might be on the higher end of the spectrum for a growing company, and I’m willing to consider a lesser base paired with a signing bonus or increase in restricted stock units. My intention is to grow with the company and invest myself in its success. Why this answer worked well:The answer was well-researched and demonstrated the value that the candidate could add to the company.The candidate provided a base salary range, as well as alternative forms of compensation.

- After researching market ranges from multiple sources online and taking into account my education, experience, and location, I’m targeting roles with base salaries in the range of [dollar amount]. Of course, I’m also taking into account opportunities for long-term growth with an emphasis on purpose-driven work as I evaluate and weigh options — and my values are closely aligned with your organization’s mission. For this reason, I would be willing to negotiate base salary in exchange for a generous time-off policy. I intend to be a high performing asset to your company, and value time to recharge when appropriate. Why this answer worked well:The answer showed enthusiasm for the company and its mission.The candidate was prepared with a suggestion that would compensate for a lower base salary.

- It’s important to me any new role is positive from a work standpoint. I want the work that I’d be doing to be impactful, and I want to know that I can contribute meaningfully to the organization. That’s why I’m most interested in this role: My personal values and ambitions are aligned with the company’s mission. As far as annual compensation, I’m open to how it is paid out, whether through base salary or a bonus structure. For a move to make sense to me, I would need the total compensation to be between [desired salary range]. Additionally, in future conversations, I’d also like to discuss how we might leverage the signing bonus to compensate for some of the long term Incentives like stock options that I’d be walking away from in my current role. Why this answer worked well:The answer offered a range instead of an exact figure, and suggested several ways that compensation could be structured.The candidate explained the value they’d like to offer the company, and expressed genuine interest in the role.

- This is a question you'll get all too often, so here are a few tips to help you master the answer:
 
Give them a salary range.

Let them know there’s room to negotiate (instead of starting with a specific number). Avoid going too low though, because that's going to work against your interests. And don’t go too high either, or you may freeze yourself out of the opportunity.
 
Do some neutral research.

Give them a reasonable place to start from. You can use a resource like the LinkedIn Salary Tool to find out what other companies are paying people in this role and share with them what you learned about this salary range. Then they’ll have to base their compensation at least on those numbers because you've let them know what other similar organizations are giving to employees who do that job.
 
Bring up signing bonuses. 

Doing this can create a win-win situation for both parties. At the end of a negotiation, asking for extra money up top is often a way to bridge the gap between what you want and what you’re being offered.

Tips
Know the industry norms for similar jobs.
Talk about ranges, rather than exact numbers.
Make the case that you offer premium value.




# What do you like to do outside of work?
Overview
Interviewers want to know you’re going to be enjoyable to have around and not just that you have the hard skills for the job. Use this question to set yourself up as interesting, fun, curious, or a go-getter.



A lot of my spare time lately has been dedicated to teaching myself how to shoot and edit instructional videos. I've been a garage-sale shopper for several years, and I sell my finds on eBay to pay down my student loan debt. So far I've raised $11,000. People who find out that I do this often have a lot of questions about how to get started, how to find the best stuff, and how to market items on eBay. So I've decided to put a few tutorials up on YouTube. That way people can learn through the videos—and I gain a new creative skill. Why this answer worked well:He came off as resourceful, financially responsible, and willing to share his talents with others.He focused on how his interest helps with self-improvement.He made sure all his comments were appropriate.

I really love backpacking in different countries, especially with different cultures than the one I grew up in. I find that it allows me to disconnect and recharge from everyday life, while growing and learning something new. To date, I’ve backpacked either alone or with friends in over 20 countries, across Asia, South and Central America. For our honeymoon, my wife and I travelled northern India for 6 weeks. It’s a very diverse region, home to Hindus, Muslims, and Buddhists, and we really enjoyed spending time in a few different states. We did a diverse set of activities like hiking the Himalayas and Ladakh, finding cool hot springs, and Vipassana meditation. Vipassan is a 10 days of silence meditation. I’ve really connected with the technique and have found it to be a powerful way to focus my attention and reset myself. Why this answer worked well:The candidate showed interest in learning from people with different backgrounds.The answer included hobbies centered around health and self-improvement.


Outside of work, I enjoy fitness training, perfecting my golf swing, writing and recording music, and taking care of my dogs. This year I will be releasing my 4th album, which is all-instrumental, featuring classical guitar. I play every instrument and record tracks at my home office. Currently, two are streaming on iTunes and Amazon Music. I’m working towards a completion goal of late July. I find that music is a wonderful creative outlet and stress-reliever, as well as a perfect balance for my demanding career. It allows me to set personal goals and achieve them, which is also true of physical fitness. I’ve found that keeping my mind and body sharp improve every single facet of my life. Why this answer worked well:The candidate shows self awareness and self discipline.Hobbies are centered around wellness and creativity, both of which positively impact professional life.

My wife and 5 children are my top priority. As a family, we stay very active and enjoy outdoor activities like camping and waterskiing. I played collegiate soccer and when 3 of my children joined teams, I took up coaching. I became so involved that the city requested my help in building out their recreational soccer training program. I also volunteer with a youth group through our church. I act as a mentor, helping young men set and achieve their own goals. For example, if they want to learn how to do an oil change, I empower them to learn. I’ll help them track down a car, guide them in the research, then oversee the process. As a father and community member, these activities have been enormously rewarding. It’s nice to feel like I’m making a difference in people’s lives. Why this answer worked well:The candidate’s commitment to family, community, and volunteerism shows follow-through.The answer paints a picture of a productive and dependable team player.


With this question, employers are looking to get a feel for your likability and cultural fit. So what should you say—and not say? Here are a few tips.
 
Pick one of your favorites.

Go ahead and share something about your hobbies, volunteer work, or the places you enjoy traveling to. Maybe you're taking classes to help you accelerate your skills. In general, you just want to tell them something that's true and will paint you as an interesting, healthy, or good human being.
 
Keep it short.

For example, if you're a bird watcher in your free time, skip the 22-minute account of every species you've ever documented. Share enthusiastically so your passion shines through, but don't ramble on endlessly. Doing so might give the people to whom you're trying to make a good impression the feeling that you're nervous or that brevity just isn't your strong suit.
 
Stick to appropriate topics.

Avoid anything that might be pulverizing or offends somebody who's not a part of a particular group like politics or religion. Choose something uncontroversial or beneficial, and take advantage of the opportunity to show them that you're the complete package.
See less
Tips
Share something that paints a favorable picture.
Keep it short and sweet.
Don’t bore them with long stories.
Steer clear of the inappropriate zone.



# Tell me about a time you had to manage conflicting priorities.


Overview
Employers want to see how you handle competing priorities, understand the implications of missing deadlines, and can stay cool under pressure.


I was asked at the last minute to help with a major project. The deadline was just a few days away and the project had gotten derailed. As I was working on this first urgent project, I was approached by two different clients with pressing requests as well. These conflicting priorities overwhelmed me at first. Then I came up with a plan to prioritize the tasks I was given based on their level of importance. I determined which clients were the most critical to our business and who needed deliverables with the quickest turnaround. I ranked the assignments and figured out how long it would take me to finish them. Then I checked in with my coworkers, clients, and manager to see if the timeline made sense to them. We added an additional team member, stayed in the office late for a few nights, and aligned with the clients on the new timeline. In the end, I was able to complete everything on time. Each client, manager and co-worker was satisfied with my work and were happy that I communicated my revised timeline so there weren’t any surprises at the end of the project. Why this answer worked well:She explained the many conflicts happening in this particular week at work.She described how she tackled the process and showed what steps she took to get everyone on board with the new timeline.She ranked the assignments based on who the clients were and what they expected. The outcome was positive and the clients were happy.


As part of my role in Business Development, I managed multiple programs. Due to changes in business needs, I had to update the training for the sales team for one program, while working on launching a new capability within the other. Both were high priority and time sensitive, and required major time and effort on my end. To ensure that deadlines were met, I met with the respective internal and external partners to set expectations and key milestones. I also identified which teams would be responsible for the various aspects of each deliverable. Once we established parameters, I stayed in regular communication with all stakeholders. Every time we hit or missed a milestone, we went back to the plan to adjust and realign. The constant open communication kept us all on the same page and working towards the collective goal. We were able to successfully deploy the new capability for one of the programs, which was a big success. Due to factors beyond our control, we missed the deadline for the other program — but our transparent and communicative working model eased conversations with partners and leadership, and allowed us to pivot quickly. Why this answer worked well:The candidate demonstrated the ability to manage expectations across stakeholders while ensuring alignment throughout multiple projects.The answer highlighted strong communication and project management skills, and the ability to ease challenging conversations.

During my role as Manager of Transportation Procurement, I was tasked with creating reports for procurement and presenting them to our Business Intelligence department. I was selected for the project because of my engineering experience. After creating the reports, the BI team told me that they were backlogged for at least 6 months — which was an unacceptable timeline for my manager. I was hesitant to break protocol, but explained that I could actually design and implement the entire project myself within 6 weeks. To get it done, I logged extra hours each day of the week. I created a power template with all the SQL connection, necessary queries and joins, as well as all the DAX calculations needed. I replicated the template for each report needed and built a dashboard as a web interface for users to access the reports. When I shared this with my boss, I was asked to present it in an upcoming meeting. To my surprise, both the President and VP of the division attended. My hard work was very well received. The next week, I was given a promotion and assigned full responsibility for Business Intelligence. Why this answer worked well:The candidate showed a willingness to take on additional responsibilities to accommodate an aggressive timeline.The process and tools used to complete the project reflect deep experience and expertise.The candidate’s promotion provided proof of success and the ability to win the trust of leadership.


When I worked for a technology company in the 3D printing space, their org had me reporting directly to a VP of North American Sales, as well the global VP of Sales based in Tel Aviv. This dotted line structure led to inherent priority conflict, as I was taking direction from 2 different department heads with very different expectations. I was not able to perform my role effectively with multiple managers, and it caused much undue stress. I approached my direct manager of our North American operation and asked that he contact the VP of our corporate location in Israel to request a change in reporting structure. Fortunately, I had already established myself as a valuable, contributing team member. This allowed me to approach this escalation with confidence, as my manager knew I was committed to excellence in my role. It turned out that this was a much larger, company-wide issue, and by bringing my situation to the attention of leadership, a larger conversation about reporting structure began. Ultimately, the company made the decision to phase out the dotted line reporting matrix globally. Why this answer worked well:The answer clearly explained the situation and source of conflict.The candidate had established themselves as a valuable contributor and felt comfortable addressing the issue directly.The resolution had positive implications for the entire company.




Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.
 
Describe the situation.

Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.
 
Get into the action.

Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.
 
Show the results.

Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.



Tips
Talk about the most important priority and then share additional priorities and how they conflicted.
Describe the steps you took to get the top priority done.
Discuss the impact this had on the company or team.

# Where do you see yourself in 5 years?

Overview
Employers want to determine how serious you are about your career and whether your goals match the goals for this job. Employers don’t expect you to offer up a specific title you want. Instead, they want to know what you hope to accomplish.


In the first two or three years, I plan to immerse myself in the position by leveraging my strong Excel knowledge to develop automated reports and processes. The goal would be to improve efficiencies and reduce time spent on manual tasks. Within two to three years after that I see myself using that experience to help other departments develop similar efficiencies. Why this answer worked well:She broke it down into two-to-three year chunks.She explained what she could give in relation to her Excel skills rather than what she planned to get from the company.She avoided mentioning any job titles she hoped for in the future.

My professional experience has provided a strong foundation and invaluable insight into my strengths, interests, and areas of opportunity. In the next 5 years, my aim is to continue to build strong relationships and trust by establishing myself as an expert in my field. This will require dedicated investment both in and outside of my role, gathering new perspectives from partners, colleagues, and mentors. I plan to spend the next 2-3 years honing my leadership skills. I’m a fast learner and enthusiastic student of the industry. In each role, I have sought mentorship, and would like to provide this kind of support to others in the future. I have enjoyed owning projects and leading collaborators, and believe that management is the next right path for me. That’s just one reason why I’m drawn to your company. I’ve heard incredible things about your management training programs, and I am looking for an organization I can grow with. I believe that I have both the drive and the soft skills to be a real asset to your team for years to come. Why this answer worked well:The candidate has a clear vision for their career and outlined how their goals can be an asset to the company.An interest in mentorship shows willingness to take guidance, as well as invest energy in others.


I really enjoy my current position and have been happy to contribute to the success of the company. Within the next 5 years, I see myself taking on greater responsibility through a senior leadership role. I feel that my experience, communication skills, and creative strengths would well position me to lead a nationwide or global sales team. At this point in my career, I have already broadened my role by transitioning from a field rep to a regional manager. Under my guidance, the team has grown the regional revenue by 32% in just 15 months. We have also established a continued growth trajectory that projects 15% more growth within the next two quarters. My professional accomplishments are a testament to my ability to perform at the highest level, and I look forward to the challenge of guiding a team to use a proven sales process to maximize revenue and margins. Why this answer worked well:The candidate detailed the clear trajectory of their career path, and outlined a vision for the next phase.The answer quantified professional contributions and growth.


In 5 years time, I see myself advancing to an executive level role leading the broader marketing function or leading the company’s effort to be a digital-first brand. That being said, I’ve always seen myself as a business-leader first, marketer second. In order to be a well rounded business leader, and given the global nature of the company, I would like to do an international assignment within the next 2-3 years, ideally in Asia. My experience and expertise to date has been North America-centric and I would like to garner the experience of working in a different culture with different consumers and unique business challenges. China and India have different go-to market business models, higher price sensitivity, smaller pack sizes, all of which requires a different approach and I would like to learn, grow and add value to this important region. This will give me invaluable experience on the different facets of the business and make me a better marketing leader for the company. Why this answer worked well:The candidate has done their homework on the company, and has a plan to achieve their goals in ways that will help the company grow.The answer showed that the candidate is not just looking for a job. They’re looking for a career with this company, with ambition to succeed beyond the current scope of the role.


# Describe your leadership style.

Overview
Good leaders can explain their values and priorities in a few words. This is a test to see if you can explain yourself. It also helps to determine whether your approach meshes with the company’s own culture.


- For me, good leadership is about finding the best analytical approach while still caring about the people on the team. Last year, I took charge of a digital marketing campaign that wasn't getting any traction. I realized our team members didn't know what was expected. We worked together to build new metrics. I gave more responsibilities to our most engaged team member and helped another one find a different job where he could be more effective. Within three months, we were hitting our numbers and morale was vastly better. When we were ready to expand, five internal candidates asked if they could join our team. I love building productive, successful teams, and it sounds as if there would be great opportunities to do that in the job we're talking about. Why this answer worked well:She talked about what her overall philosophy was and how she was an effective leader.She shared an example of something that was a challenge, what she did to solve it, how she brought the team along, and the results that she captured from it.She wrapped it up with how it connected back to the organization.

- I subscribe to McGregor’s Theory Y of management, which emphasizes the importance of "participation." This theory suggests that people take pride in their work and act responsibly for the most part. I firmly believe that everyone wants to do their level best, and will do so when they have a clear vision, the right tools, and a sense of ownership. This informs the way I lead and inspires my goal of creating a positive, inclusive, and enabling work environment for everyone involved. In my experience, this approach has kept collaborators highly motivated and delivering work in a way that is sustainable for everyone involved. While working on a small sales team, my focus was to set clear and collective targets to ensure ownership, and offer regular training sessions on selling process and technology use. This was more efficient than having a weekly check-in and feedback cadence. It was a refreshing change for the team who appreciated the autonomy. This approach was successful, as our team consistently delivered above plan revenue while achieving savings on trade allowances. I also received the CEO award for sales excellence and received the highest performance grading. Why this answer worked well:The answer includes their philosophy and a real-life example of how it has been successfully applied.The candidate’s story shows a genuine interest in teams and in building leadership skills.

- In a word, supportive. I think it is important to understand the unique strengths and blind spots of my team members and direct reports. Knowing how to work with a range of experience, skills, and working styles plays a big role in the success of a team. We recently hired a new analyst who had limited experience in the industry and required hand-holding up front, but who we believed would learn fast. To effectively lead, I had to know when to step in and course correct, and when to let them make their own mistakes and learn by experience for maximum growth. Conversely, a contractor I managed in a prior role had significantly more subject matter expertise than I did. I recognized this and positioned myself as a support structure — I helped clear the path for her to achieve her goals. I believe that good leaders pay attention, listen actively, and play to the strengths of each partner and colleague. Why this answer worked well:The candidate showed the ability to assess all skill sets on the team to fully optimize projects.The answer detailed the balance of giving direct input versus letting the team explore.

- There are many aspects to my leadership philosophy, but the foundation is psychological safety. Right or wrong, I want to give the people around me, reporting to me, and partnering with me the ability to truly and honestly express their opinions without fearing any retribution or impact. That includes people overtly disagreeing with me, pushing back, or expressing an emotion. I may not always agree with them, but they will always be heard. I have found that this builds a powerful trust on teams because it’s a natural way to engage. When people feel locked in by dogma, they don’t raise their voice, and valuable insights may be lost. By giving everyone I work with psychological safety, they feel respected, understood, and free to contribute authentically. I also believe in decisiveness — in streamlined decision-making that empowers forward movement. We get the data we need, the input required, we have the safe and healthy debates, and make the call. This helps to minimize exhaustion across the board, and let team members put their stamp on real progress. Why this answer worked well:The candidate showed the ability to lead teams with divergent points of view, and a willingness to be challenged by new ideas.The candidate demonstrated an understanding of the importance of minimizing exhaustion for the sake of productivity and morale.

This is a question you’ll hear a lot and answering with authenticity is key. Here are three tips I have to help you get started:
 
Be clear about your leadership style.

Don’t be vague or ambivalent. If you're a team builder, say so. If you're tough, but fair, own it. Be very concise and clear on how you define your leadership so that they know very well what you're all about.
 
Give a detailed example that highlights it.

Talk about a situation, a problem or an obstacle, and then walk through what did you do and what was the result. What did it mean to your organization, company, and the customer? And be sure to include how you brought your team along, because this isn't all about you.
 
Show situations where you've adapted.

Life's not going to be simple. People want to see how you've grown and changed given the situation. Just like you look for that in the people you're going to hire, the same thing with the hiring manager who's looking to hire you.



Tips
Start by framing your basic style in a few words.
Give an example of your leadership style in action.
Show that you can adapt well to unexpected situations.


# Tell me about a time you failed or made a mistake.

Overview
Being able to admit to a mistake shows maturity and personal accountability. Employers want to know you’re self-aware and that you learn from past experiences. Errors are inevitable in any job - it’s how you handle them that matters.

- In my first job, my manager asked me to develop several forms of tracking projects. I said “yes” because I wanted to do everything my manager asked me to do. But as I started working on the project, I realized I didn't understand the overall goal. And the project ended up creating templates that didn't meet my manager's expectations. My manager was disappointed in me. She told me that if I had asked some clarifying questions, I would've gotten to a better work product. I admitted to my manager that I had made a mistake and learned that it doesn't make you look stupid if you ask clarifying questions. I learned that it's better to speak up quickly. That's how I've handled those situations ever since. Why this answer worked well:She owned her mistake, going straight to the point and describing a situation with the right level of detail.She reflected on what she did wrong—not asking clarifying questions—and how that negatively impacted her work.She talked about what she learned from the experience.

During my first few months in network planning, I worked to launch a new international route for a major airline. Months of work and detailed analysis goes into every new route as many candidates are narrowed down to a few worthy of a multi-million dollar investment. Regardless, this work needs to be done at a rapid pace and with a high level of confidentiality. My team moved quickly, and my work was shared with only a few key decision makers in the company to gain approval. Unfortunately, throughout the rapid pace of work, a few key stakeholders were left out of communications and felt unprepared. They were later left to scramble and quickly adapt when they heard about my project in the media. Learning from my mistake, I developed a robust checklist of each communication that would be required prior to all subsequent launches. I also adapted it for other teams to help my peers avoid a similar oversight. Why this answer worked well:The candidate addressed the question honestly, and described actions taken to avoid repeating the mistake.Adapting the solution for peers shows the candidate’s dedication to the company, and indicates a team player mentality.

While working in channel sales for a technology company that sold storage area network solutions, I made the mistake of announcing a new break/fix service that was not approved or rolled out internally yet. I had jumped the gun in assuming it was ready to go. As a result, over 50 global channel partners received the new program and some of them had already initiated quotes for end users. Once I realized my mistake, I sent out communication to the channel partners and owned up to it fully. Many reached out to me directly and were understandably confused and frustrated, but appreciated the transparency. I offered to speak to their customers and help with any quotes that may have been stuck. Ultimately, we were able to roll out the product fairly shortly thereafter, and there were no serious consequences. But I had learned my lesson. Since then, I’ve made more regular and effective communication a top priority. I make myself available and accessible to internal and external partners to keep a steady stream of information and updates flowing to avoid preventable errors. Why this answer worked well:The candidate showed that they are willing to hold themselves accountable and take direct action to solve problems.The answer outlined steps taken to avoid similar mistakes in the future, demonstrating a learning mentality.


As a second year digital executive at a leading snacks brand, I had an opportunity to either renew past sponsorships or seek new opportunities to associate our brand with top sports and entertainment properties. When I extended our contracts in fantasy football, I had my doubts of the effectiveness of the partnership and the overall lack of novelty after so many years. Compared to the actual NFL, fantasy football has a limited number of extremely dedicated fans and users. We had a true tradeoff of reach versus frequency. I worked with our agency partners to slash costs and develop numerous versions of compelling sweepstakes. We refreshed the creative constantly and monitored performance aggressively to avoid a negative ROI. But, despite all efforts, we struggled to get fans to engage. I wish I had trusted the numbers and my own intuition to consider other programs that would have been a much bigger success. It’s not easy to quickly acclimate at a top CPG company, but that experience taught me to bet on myself, seek mentors who can help guide me in a new culture, and never forget the importance of thanking teammates and partners for their hard work. Why this answer worked well:The candidate took initiative to keep the work on track, but also owned the underperformance.The answer set up the challenge and detailed the range of strategies that were attempted.



Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.
 
Describe the situation.

Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.
 
Get into the action.

Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.
 
Show the results.

Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.



Tips
Use an honest example that’s believable.
Explain why it was a mistake.
Talk about what you’ve learned and any steps you’ve taken to show that you’re “working on it”.



# Tell me about a time you worked with a difficult person.

Overview
Employers know that difficult people are everywhere and situations come up frequently. Explaining how you’ve been able to handle a challenging person in a mature way demonstrates your ability to manage difficult moments successfully.


My boss assigned me to a big project that entailed working across multiple teams. I had to collect and analyze data that would help her make an informed decision about a new service we were introducing to our customers. One of these individuals I needed to collect data from had a bit of a difficult personality. He was late to provide the data, and when he did provide it, it was incomplete or inaccurate. Without getting the right information from him I knew I wouldn't be able to complete my assignment. After I asked a few times, he agreed to have coffee with me so we could talk about the situation and I could get a better sense of what his challenges were. I asked what I could do to help make the request easier for him. He shared that he was overwhelmed, as he had multiple competing deadlines, and that there were errors and delays with all the data. We brainstormed ways that I could break down my request into more bite-size chunks so he could squeeze in the request in between bigger projects. I then customized each of my requests in a way that would work with his schedule. He appreciated how much I was able to tailor my request to meet his needs. And ultimately, he helped me complete my assignments on time. Why this answer worked well:She described a tough situation and the difficulties that she experienced with this person.She explained the action steps she took and its positive outcome.She took the time to understand this individual's issues, which is a crucial skill you need when working with others.


My company had kicked off a highly controversial cross-functional initiative. I was the project lead with a team of three Product Managers, though I was not their direct manager. One of the Product Managers was many years my senior and a level above me in the organization. Throughout the process, I found that he was working around me, looping me out, and stalling the process by surfacing problems without recommending solutions. I set aside time for us to chat directly. I shared some of the challenges and pressure I was facing, making myself vulnerable to create space for him to be receptive. I explained the tension I was feeling with regards to our working relationship and asked what I could do to help improve the situation. This allowed us to clear the air, identify issues, brainstorm solutions, and commit to a healthier form of partnership moving forward. It was a powerful reminder of the value of communication and the importance of transparency and honesty on teams. Seeing one another in a humanizing light allowed us to build a stronger team. Why this answer worked well:The candidate demonstrated strong leadership with the ability to “manage up” when team members have seniority.The answer outlined important soft skills like problem solving, communication, and emotional intelligence.


As a Business Analyst, my job was to create requirements documents or pitches for new projects to present to a board of directors for approval. One of the board members was notorious for poking holes and asked us to gather more information, causing significant delays. This made stakeholders very unhappy. I reached out to this board member to better understand his concerns and identify ways to streamline the process. I looked back at the proposals and identified three themes of concern that kept coming up. We ran proposed changes by the board, and then modified the template accordingly. We also implemented a new practice to share the proposals with the board before meetings to stay ahead of questions. Our approval rates tripled! In the end, uncovering the root of a difficult relationship was beneficial to our process and all parties involved. Why this answer worked well:The answer shows that the candidate has a proactive problem-solving mentality and is capable of turning challenges into opportunities.Resolving this difficulty prevented delays for future projects and improved collaboration with board members and stakeholders.



I don’t really believe that there are inherently difficult people. In my experience, different backgrounds and levels of information can make it difficult to understand another’s point of view. As a product manager, I really wanted to push for a shopping feature within our app. I saw a great opportunity to open a new potential revenue stream, but one of our key stakeholders — an engineering team lead — was concerned that we’d need to staff up in a significant way, and that the investment wouldn’t pay off. I did a little digging and spoke to his team members to understand his concerns better. I realized that I would need a quantitative analysis, rather than just a business plan. So I mapped out potential revenue to prove that this endeavor would not only be profitable in the short term, but over the next 5 years. He was impressed that I had run the same analytics as his engineering team would, which helped him move from a blocker to a strong advocate of the project. Why this answer worked well:The candidate showed a willingness to work through a difficult relationship by understanding another point of view.The approach was a blend of soft and technical skills, and the result was a clear win for the company.


Respond to this kind of question with a compelling story that uses the "SAR" framework: situation, action, and results.
 
Describe the situation.

Talk about the initial events that occurred. What were the problems that you were experiencing? What needed to be solved and what resources did you have--or not have? This is a really key part of the story, so it should be about three to four sentences long.
 
Get into the action.

Speak about the key milestones that you went through. Tell them what you did to turn the situation around. Don't go into too much detail though. It should only be about two to three sentences, and try to use active verbs, things like “I implemented” or “I persuaded”.
 
Show the results.

Let them know how well things turned out, how the problems were solved and what you may have learned along the way. Try to include a clincher at the end, like dollars saved or improved profitability. It drives home that you did a great thing.


Tips
Describe how the person was ‘difficult’.
Explain the negative potential impact this could have caused.
Talk about how you approached the situation.
Be sure to highlight the positive result your efforts created.



















